---
title: 'Arch linux: The adventure begins - Installation'
date: 2020-02-23
permalink: /posts/2020/02/archlinux-install/
tags:
  - archlinux
  - linux
  - hobbies
--- 

ArchLinux for a Ubuntu/Debian based OS user.
======
The first Linux distro that I ever used was Ubuntu. A very friendly distro for the Windows users that want to get some taste of Linux. I have to left Ubuntu when Unity appeared on the scene. I migrated to Linux Mint for a Windows-like menu experience. But, I started to test differents distros, including Open Suse and Fedora. However, I always used to return to Linux Mint with xfce. One year ago, I decided to move to the basis of Ubuntu: Debian. Debian is an astonishing stable distro with a great perfomance and a great support. Unfortunally, some software that I use does not work properly on Debian. So, I was looking for a new distro when I found Arch Linux and I decided give it a chance and use it as my main distro.

ArchLinux is widely knows by the hard installation process... actually, whole installation process have to be made from the terminal. The official installation guide provided by the ArchLinux support is great but some details are not specified. For this the reason, I write here the commands that I used for the installation of Arch Linux for future references.
  
ArchLinux Installation: First steps
------  
Arch Linux only provide support for the 64 bits architecture. We could check the architecture of our CPU with:
<p>
  <code> 
    uname -m
  </code>
</p>
or 
<p>
  <code> 
    lscpu
  </code>
</p>

UEFI or Legacy BIOS
------
Actually, the actual Mother Boards includes the UEFI and Legacy BIOS. UEFI supports MBR and GPT and Legacy BIOS only supports MBR. If our PC supports UEFI, we should to used GTP to create our USB live.

Starting the installation
------
When we start ArchLinux with a USB live image, a terminal prompt will display in the screen. We login as root user by default. The next commands are only if we want that ArchLinux will be the only OS in our computer.

Temporal Keyboard distribution
------

For spanish keyboard layout, we type:
<p>
  <code> 
    loadkeys es
  </code>
</p>
or
<p>
  <code> 
    loadkeys la-latin1
  </code>
</p>
